Add tessa's changes, clean up comments/signposting, missing citations, and add abstract (#10)
taylorreiter/2021-paper-metapangenomes: content/03.results.md

](images/metapangenome_paper_overview.png){#fig:overview}

## Protein k-mers accurately estimate characteristics of microbial pangenomes

Pangenomes from isolates are typically built by assembling each isolate genome and predicting genes (open reading frames), clustering gene sequences from all genomes into a non-redundant set, and estimating the presence/absence or abundance of each gene in each genome. 
To determine whether bacterial and archaeal pangenomes could be constructed from protein k-mers, we compared pangenomes estimated from genes against those estimated from k-mers.
We compared pangenomes from 23 species belonging to 23 phyla in the GTDB taxonomy [@doi:10.1093/nar/gkab776], with pangenome size ranging from 20-972 genomes (mean = 203 genomes, median = 44 genomes) (**Figure S @fig:tree_fig**).
For each pangenome, we compared the total number of genes to the total number of k-mers, and the number of unique genes to the number of distinct k-mers within each genome.
We also tested the similarity of presence/absence profiles between pangenomes constructed with different methods using the Mantel test.

> For these three metrics, performance varied minimally across encodings and k-mer sizes, but varied dramatically for some pangenomes: both k-mers and genes are highly correlated for some pangenomes and are not correlated for others (**Figure S @fig:boxplt_fig**).

Author: ```suggestion
For these three metrics, performance was stable across k~aa~-mer sizes, but varied dramatically for some pangenomes: both k-mers and genes are highly correlated for some pangenomes and are not correlated for others (**Figure S @fig:boxplt_fig**).
```
